_drafts/coming-spring-2019-lubbock-coding-academy.md, before:

---
title: 'Coming Spring 2019: Lubbock Coding Academy!'
created_at: 2018-10-24 00:00:00 -0500
updated_at: 2018-10-24 00:00:00 -0500
date: 2019-01-23 13:28:44 -0600
layout: post
---
# Coming Spring 2019: Lubbock Coding Academy!

![Lubbock Coding Academy: Coming Spring 2019! Blog Header](https://blog.austincodingacademy.com/hs-fs/hubfs/LCA_Blog_Header.png?width=2000&name=LCA_Blog_Header.png =2000x)

 

Austin Coding Academy is excited to announce the formation of [Lubbock Coding Academy](https://lubbockcodingacademy.com/) in partnership with Lubbock Economic Development Alliance (LEDA), South Plains College, and Texas Tech University. 

Lubbock Coding Academy represents a joint effort between all four organizations to meet the growing demand for technical skills in the region. ACA will partner with these local organizations through Lubbock Coding Academy to provide developmental training to the citizens of Lubbock.

“Austin Coding Academy is very happy to partner with LEDA, Texas Tech, and South Plains in order to provide computer programming education to the people of Lubbock and to supply Lubbock businesses with talented developers,” said Chris Lofton, CEO of Austin Coding Academy.

With the growth of tech's influence in the region, Lubbock Coding Academy will look to provide a valuable service both to the people of Lubbock – through an immersive technical education – and to employers in Lubbock who are looking for developers to fill the growing number of tech positions.

“Lubbock is expanding its local industry sectors and collaborating with partners to equip our workforce with the technical skills needed in today’s business climate,” said John Osborne, CEO and president of the Lubbock Economic Development Alliance. “The addition of Lubbock Coding Academy supports the fact that our economy is dynamic and diversified.”

![Austin Coding Academy Logo, Lubbock Economic Development Alliance Log, South Plains College Logo, Texas Tech University Logo](https://blog.austincodingacademy.com/hs-fs/hubfs/Screen%20Shot%202018-10-24%20at%2012.24.52%20PM.png?width=1036&name=Screen%20Shot%202018-10-24%20at%2012.24.52%20PM.png =1036x)

### Classes at Lubbock Coding Academy

Classes will be offered in the new South Plains College Lubbock Center in the form of a 9-month in-person program. Lubbock Coding Academy will build upon ACA’s innovative curriculum to deliver the most relevant and in-demand coding skills, with an emphasis on preparing students for full-time entry-level developer roles upon graduation from the program. Tracks in both Javascript and C#/.NET will be taught by local industry professionals.  

To learn more about Lubbock Coding Academy, visit [https://lubbockcodingacademy.com/](https://lubbockcodingacademy.com/ "https://lubbockcodingacademy.com/").

### Interested in joining Lubbock Coding Academy?

If you're in Lubbock and are thinking about launching a career change, apply below to get started with Lubbock Coding Academy.

Do you currently work as a web developer in Lubbock, TX? We are now accepting applications for instructors and TA's for courses starting in Spring 2019. Email [info@LubbockCodingAcademy.com](mailto:info@LubbockCodingAcademy.com) to learn more about the positions.

Commit message:

Update from Forestry.io Austin Coding Academy updated _drafts/coming-spring-2019-lubbock-coding-academy.md

_drafts/coming-spring-2019-lubbock-coding-academy.md, after:

---
title: 'Coming in 2019: Lubbock Coding Academy!'
created_at: 2018-10-24 05:00:00 +0000
updated_at: 2018-10-24 05:00:00 +0000
date: 2019-01-23 19:28:44 +0000
layout: post
description: 'Austin Coding Academy is excited to announce the formation of Lubbock
  Coding Academy! Read more about how we plan to serve the people of Lubbock:'
tags: []
categories:
- announcements
excerpt: 'Austin Coding Academy is excited to announce the formation of Lubbock Coding
  Academy in partnership with Lubbock Economic Development Alliance (LEDA), South
  Plains College, and Texas Tech University. Read more:'
img: "/assets/images/x"
redirect_from: []
permalink: "/blog/announcements/coming-in-2019-lubbock-coding-academy"

---
Austin Coding Academy is excited to announce the formation of [Lubbock Coding Academy](https://lubbockcodingacademy.com/) in partnership with Lubbock Economic Development Alliance (LEDA), South Plains College, and Texas Tech University.

Lubbock Coding Academy represents a joint effort between all four organizations to meet the growing demand for technical skills in the region. ACA will partner with these local organizations through Lubbock Coding Academy to provide developmental training to the citizens of Lubbock.

“Austin Coding Academy is very happy to partner with LEDA, Texas Tech, and South Plains in order to provide computer programming education to the people of Lubbock and to supply Lubbock businesses with talented developers,” said Chris Lofton, CEO of Austin Coding Academy.

With the growth of tech's influence in the region, Lubbock Coding Academy will look to provide a valuable service both to the people of Lubbock – through an immersive technical education – and to employers in Lubbock who are looking for developers to fill the growing number of tech positions.

“Lubbock is expanding its local industry sectors and collaborating with partners to equip our workforce with the technical skills needed in today’s business climate,” said John Osborne, CEO and president of the Lubbock Economic Development Alliance. “The addition of Lubbock Coding Academy supports the fact that our economy is dynamic and diversified.”

### Classes at Lubbock Coding Academy

Classes will be offered in the new South Plains College Lubbock Center in the form of a 9-month in-person program. Lubbock Coding Academy will build upon ACA’s innovative curriculum to deliver the most relevant and in-demand coding skills, with an emphasis on preparing students for full-time entry-level developer roles upon graduation from the program. Tracks in both Javascript and C#/.NET will be taught by local industry professionals.

To learn more about Lubbock Coding Academy, visit [https://lubbockcodingacademy.com/](https://lubbockcodingacademy.com/ "https://lubbockcodingacademy.com/").

### Interested in joining Lubbock Coding Academy?

If you're in Lubbock and are thinking about launching a career change, apply below to get started with Lubbock Coding Academy.

Do you currently work as a web developer in Lubbock, TX? We are now accepting applications for instructors and TA's for courses starting in Spring 2019. Email [info@LubbockCodingAcademy.com](mailto:info@LubbockCodingAcademy.com) to learn more about the positions.
